# A proof system for graph (non-)isomorphism verification
 
## Introduction

This repository contains an implementation of a _canonical labeling_
algorithm for unordered graphs, based on general scheme given by
[McKay and Piperno](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0747717113001193).
Within this scheme, it holds that two graphs are _isomorphic_ if and
only if they have equal canonical labelings. Therefore, canonical
labelings may be exploited for checking graph (non-)isomorphism.

However, since the algorithm for computing canonical labeling of a
given graph is fairly complex, it is not easily trusted, which may be
a serious drawback in some critical applications, such as integration
within a _interactive theorem provers_. In such cases, the algorithm
should be either formally verified (which can be hard and tedious
task), or it should be extended to generate a _certificate_ which
proves that the algorithm's output is indeed a canonical labeling of
the given graph. Such certificate should be independently checked by
another tool which is, by assumption, much simpler than the algorithm
itself, and is, therefore, easier to trust (or to be formally
verified).

As a part of this work, we have developed a _proof system_ consisting
of a set of rules describing the operations performed by the canonical
labeling algorithm. The algorithm exports the rules applied during the
search, and the obtained chain of rules forms the certificate, ending
with the rule that derives the canonical form of the given graph.

This repository also contains an implementation of a _proof checker_
which takes a graph and the corresponding certificate as inputs, and
checks whether the provided certificate is correct for the given
graph. As a convenience, the checker may also export the derived
canonical form, or to compare that canonical form with the one
generated by the algorithm and report whether they are equal.  It is
also possible to give two graphs to the checker, together with the
corresponding certificates and to check whether two certificates are
correct and whether they derive equal canonical forms (effectively
verifying the isomorphism status of the two graphs).

## Organization of the repository

This repository contains four directories:

- morphi: this directory contains the implementation of the canonical
  labeling algorithm, extended with support for certificate
  generation, based on our proof system

- checker: this directory contains the implementation of the proof
  checker

- results: this directory contains details on experimental evaluation
  of our implementations

- thy: this directory contains a formalization (within Isabelle/HOL
  theorem prover) of the McKay/Piperno's canonical labeling scheme

Further details may be found in each of the subdirectories.


